README.md, before:

# Paul Graham Essays Website

A modern, responsive website showcasing Paul Graham's essays with online reading and high-quality PDF/EPUB download capabilities.

## Features

- **Complete Collection**: Access to all of Paul Graham's essays (200+)
- **Online Reading**: Clean, distraction-free reading experience
- **High-Quality Downloads**: Download essays in beautifully formatted PDF and EPUB formats
- **LaTeX Integration**: Uses LaTeX for professional-quality PDF output
- **Search & Filter**: Find essays by keyword or topic
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for all devices
- **Dark Mode**: Toggle between light and dark themes
- **Automatic Updates**: Regularly checks for new essays on Paul Graham's website

## How It Works

This website is built on top of the [graham-essays](https://github.com/ofou/graham-essays) repository, which provides a collection of Paul Graham's essays in various formats. The website uses Python scripts to generate HTML, PDF, and EPUB versions of the essays.

### Technical Details

- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Python scripts for processing essays and generating formatted outputs
- **PDF Generation**: LaTeX via Pandoc for professional-quality typesetting
- **EPUB Generation**: Pandoc for well-structured e-books
- **Deployment**: Netlify

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Git
- Pandoc (will be automatically installed by the scripts if not present)

### Setup

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/edhumbling/pgessays.git
   cd pgessays
   ```

2. Install the required Python packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the setup script to initialize the project:
   ```bash
   python setup_project.py
   ```

4. Generate the HTML files:
   ```bash
   python create-essay-html.py
   ```

5. Generate PDF and EPUB files:
   ```bash
   python generate_pdf_epub.py
   ```

6. Start a local server:
   ```bash
   python -m http.server 8000
   ```

7. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000`

## Deployment

This website is configured for deployment on Netlify. The `netlify.toml` file contains the configuration for the build process.

To deploy to Netlify:

1. Fork this repository
2. Connect your GitHub repository to Netlify
3. Netlify will automatically build and deploy the site

## Project Structure

```
pgessays/
├── css/                  # CSS stylesheets
├── js/                   # JavaScript files
├── essays/               # Markdown essays
├── downloads/            # Generated download files
│   ├── pdf/              # Individual PDF files
│   ├── epub/             # Individual EPUB files
│   └── combined/         # Combined PDF and EPUB files
├── create-essay-html.py  # Script to generate HTML files
├── generate_pdf_epub.py  # Script to generate PDF and EPUB files
├── setup_project.py      # Script to set up the project
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify configuration
└── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
```

## Credits

- All essays are property of © Paul Graham
- Essay collection based on [ofou/graham-essays](https://github.com/ofou/graham-essays)
- PDF and EPUB generation using [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) and LaTeX

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Configure for deployment to paulgramessays.netlify.app

README.md, after:

# Paul Graham Essays Website

A modern, responsive website showcasing Paul Graham's essays with online reading and high-quality PDF/EPUB download capabilities.

## Features

- **Complete Collection**: Access to all of Paul Graham's essays (200+)
- **Online Reading**: Clean, distraction-free reading experience
- **High-Quality Downloads**: Download essays in beautifully formatted PDF and EPUB formats
- **LaTeX Integration**: Uses LaTeX for professional-quality PDF output
- **Search & Filter**: Find essays by keyword or topic
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for all devices
- **Dark Mode**: Toggle between light and dark themes
- **Automatic Updates**: Regularly checks for new essays on Paul Graham's website

## How It Works

This website is built on top of the [graham-essays](https://github.com/ofou/graham-essays) repository, which provides a collection of Paul Graham's essays in various formats. The website uses Python scripts to generate HTML, PDF, and EPUB versions of the essays.

### Technical Details

- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Python scripts for processing essays and generating formatted outputs
- **PDF Generation**: LaTeX via Pandoc for professional-quality typesetting
- **EPUB Generation**: Pandoc for well-structured e-books
- **Deployment**: Netlify

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Git
- Pandoc (will be automatically installed by the scripts if not present)

### Setup

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/edhumbling/pgessays.git
   cd pgessays
   ```

2. Install the required Python packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the setup script to initialize the project:
   ```bash
   python setup_project.py
   ```

4. Generate the HTML files:
   ```bash
   python create-essay-html.py
   ```

5. Generate PDF and EPUB files:
   ```bash
   python generate_pdf_epub.py
   ```

6. Start a local server:
   ```bash
   python -m http.server 8000
   ```

7. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000`

## Deployment

This website is configured for deployment on Netlify. The `netlify.toml` file contains the configuration for the build process.

### Deploying to the existing site (paulgramessays.netlify.app)

This repository is already connected to the Netlify site at [paulgramessays.netlify.app](https://paulgramessays.netlify.app). When you push changes to the main branch, Netlify will automatically build and deploy the site.

### Deploying to a new Netlify site

If you want to deploy to your own Netlify site:

1. Fork this repository
2. Connect your GitHub repository to Netlify
3. Configure the build settings:
   - Build command: `python setup_project.py && python create-essay-html.py && python generate_pdf_epub.py`
   - Publish directory: `.`
4. Click "Deploy site"

## Project Structure

```
pgessays/
├── css/                  # CSS stylesheets
├── js/                   # JavaScript files
├── essays/               # Markdown essays
├── downloads/            # Generated download files
│   ├── pdf/              # Individual PDF files
│   ├── epub/             # Individual EPUB files
│   └── combined/         # Combined PDF and EPUB files
├── create-essay-html.py  # Script to generate HTML files
├── generate_pdf_epub.py  # Script to generate PDF and EPUB files
├── setup_project.py      # Script to set up the project
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify configuration
└── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
```

## Credits

- All essays are property of © Paul Graham
- Essay collection based on [ofou/graham-essays](https://github.com/ofou/graham-essays)
- PDF and EPUB generation using [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) and LaTeX

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.
